hey kids you remember Star Wars right
Tatooine ring any bells
lots of sand Tusken Raiders walking
single file banthas sweating all over
the place like some crazy mammoth goat
breeding experiment gone horribly awry
Tatooine was an arid desert planet it
had two sons and three moons it's not
the only fictional planet to orbit
multiple sons in nightfall by Isaac
Asimov planet lagash had six sons could
something like this be possible
interestingly most stars in the Milky
Way are in multiple star systems you can
even easily have double triple or
quadruple systems there are even star
clusters with hundreds or even thousands
of stars
just imagine the crazy chaotic
gravitational interactions in a multiple
star system so could they have planets
yes there are sir compiler systems where
stars orbit each other and their planets
orbit outside circling them both since
the stars orbit one another so closely
it's the gravitational equivalent of a
single star from an orbiting planet the
stars would always appear together in
the sky and to date we've discovered 17
of these systems but then there are wide
binary systems which are far more
dangerous for planets here the planet's
orbit one main star and then there's
another star which maintains a distant
orbit much further out you don't want to
live there the gravitational
interactions are chaotic and lead to
mayhem in simulations planets which
aren't tightly orbiting a star are
ejected out of a system or crashed into
other planets or stars we might already
be detecting highly elliptical orbits
from disrupted planets just like these a
triple star system was recently
discovered in the constellation Cygnus
HD one eight eight seven five three here
a pair
stars are tightly bound and these are in
a wide binary arrangement with a Sun
mass star a planet closely orbits the
primary star but all other planets were
likely ejected in the year 2012 a planet
was found around Alpha Centauri B and pH
1 was the first quadruple star system to
be discovered to have a planet kepler 47
is a multi star multi planet system two
stars orbit one another every 7.45 days
here the gas giant Kepler 47 C orbits
the stars every 303 days and is even
located in the habitable zone this
sounds like perfect concept art for a
Vin Diesel film or artwork airbrushed on
the side of a van finally in 2011 the
Kepler 16 system was found to have a
circumbinary planet in the habitable
zone so two stars closely orbiting each
other and a Saturn masts Kepler 16b
orbiting the two astronomers informally
called this a real Tatooine so what do
you think would you want to live on a
desert world like Tatooine or Arrakis
tell us your thoughts in the comments
below thanks for watching never miss an
episode by clicking subscribe the guide
to space is made possible by members of
our patreon community I'd like to thank
James
sirak and the many others who contribute
to help us bring great space and
astronomy content every month you like
to join our community and get advance
access to episodes as well as extra and
behind-the-scenes content click here and
check out our page on patreon
you make the text a little smaller yeah